Introduction
The reason why Raspberry Pi is so amazing is the networking function and support by
numerous open source web applications. With it, your own Internet of Things system can be
constructed conveniently. In this lesson, you will control an LED based on the web with
Raspberry Pi. You can use your mobile phone, tablet pc or computer to control the LED too, as
long as it is in the same Local Area Network (LAN) with your Raspberry Pi.

Components
- 1* Raspberry Pi
- 1* Breadboard
- 1* LED
- 1* Resistor (220Ω)
- Jumper wires

Principle
WebIOPi is a fully integrated Internet of Things framework for the Raspberry Pi. It is a
lightweight web server program on the Raspberry Pi platform which provides users a solution
for remote access Raspberry Pi. That is, you can remotely operate your Raspberry Pi and control
the hardware connected to it by a browser or an APP.

Experimental Procedures

1. Connect the circuit as shown in the following diagram
66

2. Install WebIOPi
wget http://webiopi.googlecode.com/files/WebIOPi-0.5.3.tar.gz
tar xvzf WebIOPi-0.5.3.tar.gz
cd WebIOPi-0.5.3
sudo ./setup.sh

3. Set or modify the password of WebIOPi
sudo webiopi-passwd
Username: webiopi
The default password is raspberry

4. Start WebIOPi
sudo python -m webiopi 8000
You can change the port by yourself. The default port is 8000.

5. Run WebIOPi in the back-end system, or it will be killed when you press Ctrl+C
sudo /etc/init.d/webiopi start
and
67
sudo /etc/init.d/webiopi stop

6. Set WebIOPi to start with the system
sudo update-rc.d webiopi defaults

7. Open the interface of IP address access management with a browser
http://192.168.1.106:8000/webiopi/

Control method:
1) Click outside IN/OUT to switch between the input and output modes of GPIOs

2) In the output mode, click the inside figures to switch between high and low outputs. After
connecting the LED to GPIO17, click block 11, and you will see the state of the LED changed

3) In the input mode, the inside figures represent the input states of GPIO

Summary
In this lesson, you have learnt how to build the Internet of Things for WebIOPi platform based
on Raspberry Pi and how to control your device remotely on the platform. You can learn
WebIOPi in depth and make full use of your knowledge to make more fun things.
